 AR, VR, and MR: Understanding the Differences


   You can see a composite view of physical or real-world elements as well as digital elements in the AR experience. However, there is not any interaction between the digital and real-world sections. AR connects the real and virtual worlds by providing real-time interaction and accurate 3-D pictures of virtual and real items. With AR, digital information and content are superimposed on the real world. AR allows your devices to make life easier throughout your busy day by providing electronic materials in the same way you see the environment. By aiming your camera, you can quickly and easily find objects visually. A form of technology known as virtual reality simulates an environment. It creates a synthetic, computer-generated world that people may experience and engage with. In contrast with typical user interfaces, virtual reality immerses the user in the experience. Virtual reality is a simulation that will be both identical to and quite different from the real world. The user's physical presence in the virtual environment will be enhanced by realistic sights, sounds, and other sensations produced by either headgear or multi-projected surroundings. You can explore the virtual world, navigate it, and interact with virtual elements or products to obtain perfect solutions. Mixed reality, also known as hybrid reality, is the blending of the digital and real worlds to create new landscapes and visualizations where real-time interaction between physical and digital items is possible. In mixed reality, you use next-generation sensing and imaging technology to interact with and manipulate both physical and virtual products and settings. Without ever taking off your headset, MR enables you to view and become fully immersed in the world around you while interacting with a virtual environment with your hands.  


Augmented reality example:  Pokémon Go, where users are searching in their real-life neighborhoods for animated characters that pop up on their phone or tablet. 
Virtual reality example: A computer generated living room in which your simulated self can move around and interact with the virtual furniture and houseplants or the simulated selves of others like you. 
Mixed reality example:  Another real-time view in which virtual selves or objects are also displayed -- but where the real and artificial elements can interact (e.g., placing a virtual pencil on a real table). 

